Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
The venue is the Swicker office.
Today's date is Friday the 16th of January 2015.
Our interviewee is Adrian Wiggins.
Adrian, for the record, would you please spell your name in four?
A-D-R-I-A-N
W-I-W-G-I-N-S
Thank you very much indeed.
Adrian, what's your earliest Cardiff Carnival memory?
It's a tricky one that really.
I think my earliest one would be
when I first started drumming with Sam McGillis
and there was a guy that came in called Sam Alexander
who's a very good friend of mine still to this day.
And I learnt the art of Maraca 2.
And one of my earliest memories was
learning Maraca 2 in this room and somebody coming in going,
knocking on the door, coming in saying,
this is Maraca 2, could you tell me where Maraca 1 is?
That was good.
I'm just...
This day is still a good joke.
Yeah, and then...
I think I had my first blister from drumming Maraca 2
and parading onto the Hayes,
which is now St David's too, unfortunately.
And it's just been gross by the whole Carnival thing and drumming.
My first memory of drumming was actually at Channel View.
Walking along with my kids and hearing this drumming
and it dragging me into the room
and I didn't realise at the time, but looking back,
that was a door into a new world for me.
And seeing this drumming and thinking, I want to do this.
And I think you were there, actually.
Very probably.
Maybe going, come on in, come on in.
And then that was that.
It's true to say that in terms of the community percussion and the samba,
I think that both your daughters followed in your footsteps.
All of them.
All my three girls, yeah, they've all gone.
In fact, I could put a group together with them quite easily.
And I've used them as ringers in the past for different things.
I heard of Von Trapp singers, but the Von Trapp drummers is a new one on me.
Yeah, that would be a good one.
So, yeah, lots of memories of Carnival.
And when you contacted me to come in and do this,
I've been thinking about various things.
And in our conversation before, I'm just remembering when it started
and when it finished.
And I think the first...
So when I first started playing was under the tutelage of Sam
and Chris and Simon, with Samba Glez.
And then I think my first year as a leader would have been around
about probably about 92 or 93.
And I fell in, fell into teaching, really.
Actually, funnily enough,
a memory just came to my head, was at Katae's Community Centre.
So I just got so engrossed in the drumming
and just found that I could pick it up and run with it.
And I think there was one particular day
Chris or Sam wasn't there.
And somebody came into the room and said,
Oh, how does that rhythm go?
And I went, Oh, it goes like this.
I don't really know how to teach.
And somebody said, Well, you're teaching now.
And that was the first time I'd ever taught anybody, you know,
because I just did it. It was just me.
That was the first time I passed on my knowledge to somebody else
and without realising, you know.
And from then on, I just became a teacher of drumming.
You know.
Obviously, costumes are a huge part of Carnival as well.
And you used to get involved in the making of costumes.
Do any come to mind when you think of, well, on the one hand,
costumes that you and your percussion band have worn on parade
or others that stick in your mind from past Carnival?
There's a few, actually.
I think the most famous one, the ones that looked great
were the skeleton outfits or the skellies, as we call them.
Took us weeks to make them.
And Sally and myself were just there constantly printing them out.
And I think we printed front and back about 20 skeleton outfits,
which we then kept hold of and used them for our own performances.
I think that was our first proper
Carnival performance as repercussion street band.
And yes, so that and we think we also had
headpieces as well, which are really uncomfortable to wear.
So those are great because they were Lycra leggings
and they glow or fluorescent scully out for printing.
And I think then there was one year where we had to do these barcodes,
which were the most fiddliest bloody thing.
I had to sew bits of plastic onto
the same sort of leggings and T-shirts with these really intricate.
It took ages to put these things together.
And really fiddly.
We got them all together and we got out onto the street
and it was pissing down the rain, excuse the language.
And within about five minutes, it fell apart.
A classic carnival tradition.
Disintegrating costumes.
And we were just I think you were you were actually trying to hold off the carnival.
We were trying to find a window of opportunity to get onto the street.
It was like, right, let's just go for it.
And we got onto the street.
And that was one of my earliest memories of drumming in the rain
and helped by an ample amount of rum.
And just embracing the weather, you know, and just.
Do you find when it's raining?
I can remember the first time it ever rained on a carnival.
I think it was 1991 that we were passing the haze
and Sam was leaving the band at the time.
And he looked at me and fair play to him.
He just started shouting and screaming.
And I can remember him poguing, jumping up and down like a mad thing.
And of course, the band responded to this.
Because the band pushed it up.
It's all like, you know, nothing's going to stop us.
Yeah, all the masqueraders, the revelers and the audience stayed with it.
And I remember thinking, God bless you, Sam.
And you've shown us what our response to rain is,
which is to go to take it to the sixth gear, to really go completely.
You know, this is the.
Yeah, definitely. I've played.
I've done many a parade in the rain
and performed abroad in France with my band.
And it's rained and instead of getting down by it,
you just you up it and go above and beyond and just embrace it and shout
and give off, you give off the energy, your band responds to it.
The crowd responds to it.
The band responds to that and you just spiral up.
Yeah. Yeah.
I can't stand that. Yeah, yeah, definitely.
So, yeah, I mean, I prefer not to play in the rain.
This is Wales. This is Wales.
It does happen. Yeah.
Obviously, percussion's played the last part of your life.
You know, what do you do now?
How have you sort of gone from that very first?
I love seeing the idea of your hearing.
Samba, perhaps live for the first time,
percussion live for the first time, becoming into Channel View.
And that just, you know, it was like it was like an entity
dragging me into that room and change my life.
The force was strong.
It was and changed my life forever.
I would not be doing what I'm doing now if it wasn't.
I don't think it was a chance encounter.
I think I would have gotten to what I'm doing now. Yeah.
But I do think that I think about it quite a lot.
How? At what point I would have got into it,
because I'm actually member seeing some of the layers playing in the haze.
Probably a few months before that, and I hadn't long moved to Cardiff.
And just am ambling around, you know, not really having a direction.
I mean, what I was doing, nothing really.
I'd moved from Brecon to Cardiff and didn't really know many people.
And I remember seeing a bunch of hippies, degenerates,
or whatever they looked like, you know,
hitting bits of whatever they were.
I had no clue what they were doing.
You know, it's just been enthralled and intrigued by
by and how it all came together.
And and then that was that.
And I thought, OK, whatever, as you do.
And then and then this one particular day,
but in Channel View and hearing this drumming and
and like the entity bringing me in and opening this door to this world,
which I I'm I am now.
And that was probably.
Well, that's got to be about 24 years ago then.
Or more. That's crazy.
And now I.
You know, I teach Samba as a team building
session, you know, all over Europe and the world.
And I'm a professional musician.
I like to think that quite good at what I do.
And I'm forever, forever grateful for for that opportunity.
Well, I think on that note, Adrian Williams, thank you very much.
You're welcome. For the interview.
And what? It's just been great fun. Yeah.
Which is great. Thanks, Steve.